(Applause)

When Heidi asked me to come up a to
speak to you

and an invitation by the way for which
I'm grateful and honored

the I thought what am I gonna say to

what is largely a believe a group of
parents in loved ones have

people with ADHD in and so she wanted me
to do something a little new in a little

different and i sat down and I said you
know

what ideas what I want any family that
we had seen

in our clinic to understand by the time
we had finished working with that family

by the time we finish the evaluation and

the counting of that family what what
would be the thirty take home ideas

I tried to reduce it to 10 by the way
but that's just not possible

and 30 was even a bit of a struggle
there's another 30 I left out

but I I think I've these as sort of the
touchstone ideas that a family

needs to understand if they really are
going to appreciate the both the nature

of this disorder in a child

and what it means for the raising and
management love that child successfully

so we're gonna have some fun with this
because I've not done

this presentation in this way ever
before and you may advise me never to do

it again

we'll see obviously the first idea is
to

know the disorder and we begin at a very
elementary stated this disorder

this is a developmental disability that
is the first thing you need understand a

disability i've what

there are two psychological traits that
are not developing

in this child on time so

let's clarify that a developmental
disability means that you were showing

age inappropriate behavior doesn't mean
that your behavior is pathological

it just means it's not appropriate for
your age

so understand one thing ADHD is
different from normal

in a quantitative way not a qualitative
way

developmental disorders differ from
psychopathology

us a psychopathology is a gross
aberration in your behavior that we can

recognize

at any age if you are bipolar if you are
schizophrenic

if you have major depression we don't
need to adjust the criteria for your age

because those are grossly abnormal
conditions

autism would be another one those are
not developmental disabilities

a developmental disability is a delay in
the rate

up a normal trait what distinguishes
this child

from other children who don't have the
disorder

is the degree of the delay they will go
through the same stages that others

would go through

in normal development but not at the
same time

and when the streets reach their
ultimate

maturity which by the way is your early
thirties

the person with the ADHD will be
leveling off

at a degree well behind it

that up where the general population has
leveled off

in that rate so delay does not mean

lag it doesn't mean temporary this is a
chronic

lag in the development up the straits

but the important thing is that the
difference between this child and other

children

is quantitative it is like someone
sitting next to you who is

shorter or taller it is like someone who
is

more athletic or less athletic these are
not qualitative differences

the quantitative so that is what
separates your child from others the

decree

above the delay is the distinction I say
this because so many trade books written

for parents

have argued that ADHD is a qualitatively
different human

your child is a little hunter and he has
to go to school with farmers

your child has a gift that other
children do not have

this is nonsense this is utter gibberish
there never was never will be

any science don't support those ideas
ADHD is not a qualitative

different state of humanity from other
people

it is much more like being better or
worse

at writing taller or shorter in your
height

better or worse at language those are
quantitative differences

that's important because otherwise we
stigmatize these people as coming from a

different planet you know one is from
Venus another from mars

to popularize or two take up a popular

view gender differences between men and
women but you get the point

people with ADHD are not different from
normal

other than in the degree of the delay

