All right we've talked about the
behavior adjustment we've talked about

how to make these changes at the

its but let's also faces by themselves
they're not

enough only a third of ADHD children
respond enough to those changes

to not need medication and even many of
those would still benefit from their

medication

but two-thirds and in my experience it
as many as eighty percent

are going to have to go on medication at
some point in life

maybe it's not this month maybe it'll be
in six months maybe a two-year

just depends on how compassionate and
cooperative the caregivers happened to

be

and of course how severe the ADHD
happens to be as well

but at some point these medications will
be needed for most children

so I want parents to know them and to
know about them now if you're looking

for a very good book the single best
book for parents and psychiatric drugs

is by doctor timothy willens

straight talk about psychiatric
medication for children

you can get it at the ATT warehouse you
can get it through Guilford publications

that deal for dot com

willens wiil E and yes

it is a parent's book I'm
psychopharmacology straight

talk about psychiatric medication for
children

so quickly let's go over what's out
there

right first of all parents need to know
we have stimulants there are only two

now

we have had them since 1936 for the
amphetamines and 1957 from Ethel Kennedy

they've been around a long

time which means we know a lot about
them we know how safe and effective they

are

these are the best study drugs used in
pediatrics and psychiatry

so parity to understand that we got a
lot of information out there

on the safety and effectiveness up these
agents but they're still

is only to stimulants the news in the
last seven or eight years

has been in the delivery systems because
the problem with the immediate release

medications is the only lasted three or
four hours

so they had to be given two to three
times a day so you had to take him at

school

and they're created all kinds of
problems so companies went back and

reengineer delivery systems to try to
keep the drugs in the body for longer

periods of time on a single dose

and they came up with four ingenious
delivery systems called the 5 P's which

I will tell you about

in just a moment let's also understand
that last year was published biggest

study ever done

a stimulant safety for preschool
children with ADHD in a show that the

drugs are effective

and are safe down to age to so the fact
that we are seeing some of these drugs

instituted younger in life than
previously is nothing to worry about

it looks okay the preschoolers don't
respond quite

as well but apart from that there are no
new side effects and there's certainly

nothing life-threatening

about using the other new agent we have
out there

is at a mock city district hero approved
in 2003 in the US in about a year later

here in Canada

shittier is not a stimulant it has not
been a beautiful drug

haha and it is nearly as effective
though not quite

as effective as the stimulus but for
some children with particular

are ADHD comorbidities like text anxiety

tourette's OCD insomnia and so forth
atomoxetine can be a good

alternative drug because it doesn't
worsen those comorbid conditions

now you should also be aware that this
August the US will have a new drug

on the market for ADHD it will be quanta
seen XR

want racine XR will be called Intuniv

this is not a stimulant decision
antihypertensive drug

it has been used for years with ADHD
children especially if they have

tourette's syndrome

or bipolar disorder or very explosive
behavior because the antihypertensive

drug

appears to help lower emotional

impulsive behavior in the individual but
Shire has now been able to manufacture a

long-acting version of guanfacine or
previously called 10x

unit will be marketed under the quanta
seen label

I expect you guys will probably see a
year or two after we get it

now let's go back to the 5 P's these are
the new delivery systems

the first P is the pellet system Sydney
the pill system

my apologies the pills are the original
forms of the drug

ritalin and dexedrine are in their
original pill form

and last about three to five hours so
what's new

they put him in a pump this is concerta
concerta is a miniature

hydraulic pump so that when you swallow
this there is powdered ritalin on the

outside of this little capsule

and it goes to work immediately and then
on one end at this capsule barely

visible to you

is a laser Hill drilled hole at the end
of the capsule

inside the capsule is a methylphenidate
sludge in two doses

a light does at the beginning double the
dose in the afternoon

when you swallow this water is gonna
come into this upper chamber and a

continuous rate and it's gonna push down
on this from like a tuba toothpaste

gonna squeeze liquid really now for
about 10 to 12 hours

that is really neat and then the pill is
excreted

in the the child so excrement so you've
got a drug that can last

around 10 hours some kids it's only
eight others get as much as 12 but about

eight to 10 is about right that is a
really need

system the next system is the
time-release

colored system so we've got the pill the
pump

and now the pellet the time release
pellets are what adderall xr involves

focalin on LA Arthur XR Ritalin LA
they're all time release pellets

and want to see necks are going to be
the same way so you have different

pellets

up medication in this case amphetamine
third coated with different time release

coatings

some dissolve right away some in an hour
to 34

up to eight to 10 hours so is there any
difference between the pellet system

and the pump not really over the day

but on the time of day there is the
palate system

it's better if the problems are greatest
in the morning the pump system is

greater

better if the problems are toward the
afternoon or late in the day

but other than that across the day the
copper about eight to 10 hours

excuse me want to get rid of that okay

well done the next p I don't know if you
have this up here in Canada

this is the patch okay this is Datron a

this is methylphenidate in a skin patch
wear it on the buttocks

wear it on your shoulder on your hip
wear it all day long that it absorbed

through the skin

no taken pills this is a very hard road
to abuse because you can't snort

the patch in

but there's a problem about 15 18
percent of patients develop a skin rash

to this and can tolerate it and it's due
to the drug

but 80 84 percent of people can tolerate
the skin patch

so it's pretty good as an alternative a
by the way I

I meant to mention under the pellet
system one of its advantages as a child

can swallow a pill and you don't have
the patch available

you can open the capsule and sprinkle
the palate on food

like on yogurt or applesauce doesn't
change the delivery

at all I'm so at another advantage of
that

finally last august we have the first
drug of its kind ever produced

this is vyvanse to former them fed a
mean called a pro drug

hence the last key what is a pro driver
approach rock is where you take

a chemical in this case amphetamine and
you lock it up

okay this is the amphetamine right here
and you lock it up

with another chemical so it can't work

now this drug will only work after you
split of in this case

the lies in you swallow vyvanse

there's a chemical in your body that
will split of the lysing

and now the amphetamine can go to work
this is the first known abuse about

lunch at a mean ever invented

because it only works in the stomach and
after crosses through the intestine

into the bloodstream and that's where
the

chemical is the enzyme that splits of
the lighting

and now it goes to work so we have a non
a beautiful amphetamine on the market in

the US

I don't know if your vyvanse yet
probably coming this year I believe

okay so just be aware that it's down
there

vyvanse is a little better than adderall
xr which is the other drug made by the

same company and its replacing it in the
US

yes vyvanse last to hours longer

than the other drugs do this is about a
twelve

our truck it also has a softer on
certain and a softer or

offset unlike adderal so it's pretty
good drug

