Now to understand why this disorders
why these impairments would

continue into adulthood

we need to go back and understand that
its a dish

order a self regulation and it's a
quantitative deficit so

that begs the question: how far behind
is dis child

and so the rule that I have talked for
years in our clinics to families and it

remains a very good

rule of thumb is the average ADHD child
is 30 percent behind their age

some are even more but on average across
all ADHD children it looks to be about

30 percent so here's what I want parents
to do

if your child is 10 yes the self control
of a seven-year-old

that is how long he can persist that's
how long he can remember that is how

long he can go without supervision

his ability to self organize

is that a seven-year-old now what would
you do for a seven-year-old

how would we arrange homework what else
would we be doing around chores around

social functioning

around independence from parents you
would be doing as much as you would with

a ten-year-old

you would not allow as much
responsibility as much freedom

as much independence so I want parents
to be

lowering their expectations to the child

executive age what

is his self regulatory age 30 percent
younger

art that's what you can expect in if
you're expecting more than that

you're my problem because you're causing
the conflict

you're like a parent of a dyslexic child
demanding normal reading

you're like the parent of a mildly
retarded child demanding

normal self sufficiency normal cognitive
village or my problem

because you just don't get it so I watch
it get it

it a 30 percent lagged that's where
they're at

that's what you can expect if you're
asking for more you're going to have to

do something

to rearrange that environment to allow
them to show what they know

but if you don't do anything they're
going to be about 30 percent behind

so what does it mean at sixteen about
giving kids a license

are you out of your mind

you just gave an 11-year-old a motor
vehicle

and your shot to see the driving
consequences are

you may have an 18-year-old who is one
of the few that's gonna go on to college

he's 12 that is executive age

how would you have to design a campus if
twelve-year-olds were showing up to go

to school

those exactly are the accommodations you
have got to make on that campus for this

person

pretender 12 more hand holding

more accountability more reporting to
student services

you're gonna get more curriculum
materials you gonna study

in groups with older more competent
students you gonna be in a

substance-free dorm

and you're going to be accountable to
student services four times a day for

the work you doing

in other words when treat you like a 12

and then you might just get through but
what do we do not we send you off you

feel the first semester and everybody
brings their hands vol what we gonna do

we're gonna have to change the campus
will have to change the environment to

suit the executive level

not the chronological level so you need
to understand the thirty percent rule

because it applies to everything

I have a 14-year-old daughter with ADHD
should should be allowed to babysit are

you crazy

me this is a nine-year-old being given
care oven infant

Knoll way I don't care she finished the
Red Cross babysitting course

I don't care she's got a certificate we
don't let nine-year-old

attend three month old babies on

supervised and that is her executive age

you think this is hypothetical we have
legal cases

the people even into their early teens
and twenties

who have killed babies out over anger

out of impatience outta immaturity have
not knowing

what to do when the baby got upset and
then their emotion comes to the

forefront

so we don't want to go there so you
should be looking at

all love these avenues have independent
and applying the thirty percent rule to

them

and that's what you allow and if you are
going to give the more you better be

doing something to see that they can
handle it

okay we want you as a parent to
understand that every treatment plant

has to have these four components

or it's not going to work component
number one you got to get

a good evaluation you have got to see
inappropriate knowledgeable

professional it doesn't matter whether
it's a developmental pediatrician a

child psychiatrist a child psychologist
or a behavioral neurologist as long as

they are well-trained

and knowledgeable about ADHD that's the
trick

it's not the degree it's the knowledge
it's the training if the experience to

do they see lots and ADHD kids and
families for adults

so we need an evaluation because eighty
percent of these people have another

disorder

and that's going to need to be treated
as well next

families need to educate themselves will
talk more about that

but you need to become an expert about
ADHD or you're not going to know how to

deal with attending this afternoon has
been a big step in that direction

third you need to understand that
medication is the most effective thing

we have

and not doesn't matter to me whether you
like that or not

that as a statement a fact we have no

more effective interventions that these
medications which is why the last decade

we have moved them

up in our priority abusing them it used
to be that we would try

everything else under the Sun first and
only if they feel go to medication well

guess what eighty percent of them failed

and we went to medication anyway and we
should've started with to begin with

because it would have made a more
minimal and more susceptible to the

other psychosocial

educational programs we were trying to
do so don't be surprised to learn that

up to eighty percent ADHD children will
be on medication

at some time in their developmental
period whether that is childhood or

adolescence

because there are times in places where
you cannot Institute psychosocial

treatment

if your child is driving home from the
homecoming

last night which was over the Delta
hotel by the way I checked in and

there's a problem going on

you can't be there handing out tokens
for following the speed limit you know

this is

idiotic to think the behavioral
interventions are as good as medications

they're not

where they're done when they're done
they're good but there are places where

they can't be done

and now what do we do the medications
feel the homes

gaps so that's why we use them and
that's why you're seeing medication

on the increase in both our countries
and it is completely irrational to do so

then we make accommodations

that's what I meant by altering the
point to performance using goes by

strategies we talked about

externalizing information you need to
create prosthetic

devices in these places to help them
show what they know

