And just in case you are wondering

yes we are discovering genes for ADHD we
have had more success

in this area of Psychiatry then with any
other disorder that I know of

we now know from genome scans published
just last year where we have scanned

all 35,000 active human genes for ADHD
genes

that it's going to be about 20 to 25
sites and others 20 to 25 sites we've

nailed down about five to seven of them

and here's a few want you to notice that
there's a D

in front of the first four genes it
means that those genes regulate dopamine

in the brain so no surprise the genes
that regulate dopamine or ADHD risk

teens

and no surprise that drugs that improve
dopamine in the brain

work for ADHD because those drugs are
altering the effects of these genes

in the brain which means that
psychopharmacology

is a form have genetic treatment is in
that fashion eighty

it's not a band aid it's not a cover up
it's not

missing the point it actually hoping to
manage

the underlying genetic problems if you
will

the genetic differences in the brain now
let me take one of these genes and

explain it to you cuz it's kinda cool

I won't go through all the genes but
bear with me this is a nerve cell that I

pulled out of your Frontalot

outshot that that hurts and if you look
at this nerve cell when this little baby

get stimulated an electrical impulses
going to proceed down this nerve cell

and as that

impulse reaches the end to the nerve
cell these little packets have chemicals

dopamine are going to move toward the
outside membrane

and first and as they burst they're
going to spray dopamine

out into that little gap call the
synapse and if there's enough dopamine

out there it's gonna cross over and buy
into this membrane

and its gonna fire the next nurse Ellen
line and that's how your brain works

Nero electrical templeton's but the
point here is that there's dopamine

being squirted outside the nurse L

now do you see this little baby reindeer
at a vacuum cleaner

and there are many other on the outside
of this nerve cell because the job but

that little pump

excuse me the job that little pump

is to vacuum up all the dopamine want to
touch up and it's known as the uptake

transporter

and one other genes I showed you called
e81

built and operates that pump if you have
a longer version of that gene

you have too many pumps on yourself
which means when this nerve cell fires

the dopamine gets back in right back up
again and it can't do its job

and it leaves you in a state have too
little dopamine

now here's the really cool part people
with ADHD have about 30 to 80 percent

more of these vacuum cleaners

on their nerve cells in the basal
ganglia and the other call part is

you wanna know what ritalin does to the
brain or concerta when you take it

it goes right there and it plugs up

the vacuum cleaner like a shock at the
end of a vacuum hose

not offended a stops the transporter
from working

what does that do leaves more dopamine
outside yourself

not on a date is a dopamine reuptake

inhibitor by the way street here it does
the same thing but it does it for north

and Efren

little bit for dopamine but nevertheless
we can now link

a gene to a problem in the brain and we
can link that problem

to a drug you shouldn't be surprised to
find that that gene is ridic ther

who was going to respond to
methylphenidate at least in the last

three studies that have looked at it

which means that sometime in the future
when you go into an office we may take

some other saliva

genotype you and decide which truck to
give you because it's looking like

genes will protect your drug response so
I would want families to know that

because that's probably five years out
maybe

maybe more maybe less

