Now the next point I'd like a family to
understand

we are only on number six whoa

25 to go that the deficit in these
executive abilities chiefly

arise from problems with brain
development so we're gonna do a very

quick

three-minute crash course on causation
what causes ADHD

multiple things but

all of them fall into the realm of
biology we now know that you cannot turn

a normal child into an ADHD child by
exposing them to any social influence

not possible not gonna happen we also
know that these causes can interact with

each other

I'll show you a slide on that very
interesting multiple biological hazards

may be interacting to produce the
disorder

we now know where in the head this is comming from so someone tell you we don't

know where in the brain it is they're wrong

go to the library please read a journal we
know that

social factors alone do not cause this
disorder but social factors are very

important kindly do not leave this room

and say that Russ said that social
factors don't matter I did not say that

I said they do not cause it but they do matter in three important ways

first the resources you'll have available
to treat this child are very much a

function of the social environment
around you

second the impairments your child will
experience are very much a part

of the situation you can rearrange
environments so they're less impairing

third comorbidity we know that other
disorders that link up with ADHD have

some social

contributors to them oppositional
disorder, conduct disorder,

anxiety disorder, and depression all have

social contributions indeed 40 to
50 percent of the variation

in those disorders is the social
environment so

while the social environment doesn't
cause this disorder

I will want families understand that doesn't
mean it's not important or irrelevant

important for several other very
important recent

now we know that assertive all ADHD has
acquired

not genetic and that most to those
acquired cases occurred

during pregnancy and these are the
things that we have found that are

likely to cause

ADHD in the unborn child because all of
these disrupt

the formation of the frontal over the
brain but we also know that about five

percent of ADHD can occur

after birth as a result of various
traumas and infections and other things

that can affect

ongoing brain development in these five
crucial areas

and it is the acquired cases that are
most likely to have seizures

we know that lead poisoning treating
leukemia

that's right the treatments for leukemia
can cause ADHD we know that struck

bacteria

contributes a small amount of ADHD why
would destroy bacteria do that

because the strep bacteria has a protein
on the outside a bit

and that protein is identical to
proteins that occur in the brain

and therefore your immune system attacks
you bring

so it's not the bacteria it's the fact
that the immune system can't distinguish

the bacteria

from nerve cells and this damage is
certain part to the brain

and one of those parts causes ADHD not a
very common problem but it can happen

we know the brain regions that are
giving rise to ADHD in we know that in

two-thirds have children

the reasons for these brain regions
being smaller has to do with genetics

about which I will say more in a moment
but let these go through these brain

regions

the 5 region to the brain that are
interconnected to each other and give

rise to this disorder are the right
frontal lobe

right over here especially over the
eyebrow and the connections from their

deep into the brain called the basal
ganglia show it to you in a moment

and then there are connections from the
central part of the brain back to the

very primitive structure the back at the
brain known as the cerebellum

that is also smaller and then there's a
very special part of the brain that lies

right between the eyes

in the midline going back on the wall so
the two hemispheres

as they come together and deep inside on
those walls

is the anterior cingulate and that is
where the emotional dysregulation

originates

finally there is the corpus close in
which allows the two hemispheres to talk

to each other but it's no surprise

the front part of the brain a smaller
than the corpus callosum has to be

smaller

the size of this network is directly
related to severity of ADHD

and in children who inherited disorder
just these parts for the brain are about

three to 10 percent smaller

a trip just three to 10 percent doesn't
sound like much in it isn't

but it's enough to cause this disorder
more importantly

it's not enough to use brain imaging for
diagnosis

these differences are so small and so
subtle that you could not use them to

classify people

which is why no brain imaging technique

including doctor a man's specs Canon is
have any value

for diagnosis we know that there are
very few gender differences in these

networks though there are some

that are interesting I won't talk about
them today and we know that these

differences are relatively persistent

overtime the structural differences will
normalize by about 16 to 18 years of age

it is the size of the brain but the
functioning in the brain will not

and contrary to Tom Cruise in the
Scientologist these brain differences

have nothing to do with giving
medication to these children

so let me show you the part to the brain
were talking about very quickly let me

get my cursor

appear on the screen this is the right
orbital frontal area

rate here this part of the brain
projects back

in between those two hemispheres there's
a structure you can see it's right about

here

and that's the anterior cingulate and
then there are projections back

into the basal ganglia right here and
then

back to the cerebellum right there and
it's the right side in the cerebellum

in the central part but smaller indeed

most interesting is that researchers
found in the last two years

that the parents and the brothers and
sisters have ADHD children

also have smaller neural networks in
exactly these areas

except for one and that is the
cerebellum

which tells us that have all of these
differences most of them are part of the

family phenotype

even if the family member never shows
the disorder

they carry these patterns under
development

what may make the disorder breakthrough
into fall disorder

is it something happened to that
cerebellum

at an interesting possibility remains to
be replicated but I to finding from

research

UCLA so what's going on the brain is not
developing on time we know that from the

Montreal New York Washington

multi-site study in which 223

ADHD normal children were skiing and he
really over a period of about ten years

as the first

developmental neuroimaging study and
what did find

that the frontal lobe of the brain
primarily is about two to three years

delayed

in its growth this is a study of growth
not function

just brain size and what you're looking
at is a top-down view with the brain

and these are the frontal lobes

so there's about a two to three-year
delay in your brain development and you

can see it

in the rate and in the left hemisphere
here as well

so this was a groundbreaking study
demonstrating

that the brain is late in these crucial
executive

areas to develop now the better parent
is going to be asking me about this

this is not the frontal lobe what the
heck is that me

that's back where your visual cortex is
why would that be involved in ADHD

the second executive function is visual
imagery

and that's involved in visual imagery

this part of the brain develop too early
this is the Motor strip

in a developed about two to three years
earlier and it's worth the hyperactivity

is coming from

so you've got a motor strip that's
generating behavior in a frontal lobe

that's not regulating

so I would want parents to understand
that this is a brain-based

disorder and that it results in a
maturational Lagan how rapidly these

parts to bring her developing

I want the family coming in my clinic to
understand that most to these

differences originate in genetics

but that about a third of the male
patients that we see may well have

acquired their

ADHD in girls it's far less than that in
fact it's fair to say that the vast

majority of girls have the

genetic type with the disorder but about
a third of the boys may have acquired

their disorder

we know that ADHD runs in families in
half for 40 years here are the recipient

have an ADHD child

25 to 35 percent other brothers and
sisters will have the same disorder

if you're an identical twin that risk is
78 92 percent

notice that the closer people are
genetically related the higher the risk

if one has the disorder that the other
is going to have the disorder

now if we bring in their mothers and
evaluate them upwards of $1 shit up

their mothers are still

adults with ADHD and nearly a third of
their fathers

are currently ADHD and if you add those
together it means that there's a 50

percent chance that one other parents
sitting across your desk

has the same disorder probably never
diagnosed

which is why we now teach clinicians
that you should be screening every peer

into brings a child to your clinic

oh and by the way if you're an adult
with ADHD forty to fifty four percent of

your children

will have the same disorder that is a
profoundly

genetic disorder nearly half are the
offspring

adults with ADHD have ADHD as well

we know from 2010 East that the vast
majority of ADHD

is due to genetic differences on average
eighty percent of the differences in

people in this room

in there ADHD symptoms are due to
differences in their genes

and in the last few studies it was as
high as human height

about 91 percent twenties allow us to
calculate how much of a trade is due to

the rearing environment and it's the 0

all 40 twin studies published in the
last twenty years

have shown that the rearing environment
has no

influence on two straight if the public
believes that ADHD originates in bad

parenting

the 23rd is also tell us that there's a
small percentage of ADHD that arising

from non-genetic

causes and those are those acquired
injuries that we talked about

earlier

