But it's not just genes, genes can
interact with their environment and

that's the purpose of this slide is to
show you very quickly

a paper published a year ago by Richard
Todd who died suddenly

shortly after publishing this paper
one of our great psychiatric geneticist

in St. Louis what you're seeing here

his children who were genotyped to see
whether or not they had that d80 gene I

just mentioned and another is gene
a-plus means you got the genome minus

means you did

now the top line you see those wise and
ends at whether or not your mother

smoked during your pregnancy

with you I want you to look all the way
over here

right side if you have both these genes
in your mother smokes cigarettes your

eight times more likely to get this
disorder than anybody who had either one

of those causes

that is a gene by tuckson interaction

and we have now found the same thing for
alcohol

so some ADHD is the result in both the
genetic predisposition to breast

and the fact that the mother may have
consumed at auction

during the pregnancy about child

we know that genetic research is the
fastest moving every search right now

in ADHD research out of all areas of
study

this is the one that is moving so
quickly there are 100 articles a year

published on the subject

alone right what can we expect from this
rapidly advancing study

we can expect to do genetic testing to
help a diagnosis we can expect to search

subtyping you

on the kind of ADHD probably have this
is going to give us a better idea of

what you are at risk for

because we are already beginning to
label and detect that these genes carry

risks for other disorders not just ADHD

for instance that d80 gene that
regulates a transporter is a predictor

of nicotine addiction

we also know that these she is going to
interact with each other and with toxins

in the environment

so that's going to help explain why some
people got ADHD and as you see here it

may help in predicting drug response

and notice we now have a paper just
published within the last year

that shows that whether or not your
child response to behavior modification

is partly related to some of these genes

sensitivity to psychological treatment
maybe

in part genetically mediated expect to
see new drugs being developed just for

these genes

and new psychosocial treatments may be
developed for certain genetic subtypes

how cool is that I would want families
therefore to leave my office

understanding

that ADHD does not arise out to the
family

what from social causes and especially
to understand that these things that are

very popular in the media

and among many uninformed parents are
not causes have ADHD for the most part

not the least of which is television

TV in video game playing are not causing
short attention span to buy here this

again in the media I'm going to throw up

this is now taken as gospel it is mere

folklore there is no evidence that you
meant attention spans have changed at

all

what is changing is the amount of media
you can distract yourself with if you so

choose

but it doesn't mean that this is causing
a short attention span and you just got

more media to pay attention to

okay and of course if you are usually
distracted and you don't like to read

for pleasure or sustain your attention
to things you a lot of choices out there

so we do know the people with ADHD watch
television more play video games more

use the internet more talk on their
cellphones more text messaging Twitter

more than other people do

that doesn't mean these things cause
their ADHD

it's the other way around ADHD leads you
to select

these as leisure activities because
they're so engaging

we know that food additives don't cause
this disorder but about one in 20

ADHD children could be exacerbated by a
little bit at these things in their diet

but it a minor

trivial scientific finding you no need
to go changing your child's diet

as a means up dealing with ADHD by the
way that include supplements like omega

3's

which were recently found a benefit less
than 25 percent of ADHD

only the SCT inattentive type appear to
benefit it was modest

it was trivial are but it was kind of
interesting but ADHD combined type did

not appear to benefit much from fish oil

at a nice randomized trial published in
Sweden just about two months ago

and of course we know that child rearing
it's nothing to do with it so I would

want the family to understand here is a
pie chart

other causative ADHD sixty-five percent
probably genetic

all the rest are biohazard second
provide or produce brain injuries

and there is no social factor on that
list

