now what is it that is delayed two traits

the first is not the one after which the
disorder is named

and in that 

sense the disorder has been misnamed the first deficit to appear

is inhibition a failure to develop an

appropriate inhibition of your behavior
and this what

often emerge in the preschool years and
its first sign is usually hyperactivity

though it doesn't need to be so but it
typically is you have an individual who

is behaving

too much who is not suppressing
irrelevant behavior

the way other children are able to do we
will see this

in their motor actions there's a lot of
action coming out of this child

we will see it in their verbal behavior
there's a lot of words coming out of this

individual

and we will see it in their intrusive

and disruptive motor and verbal behavior
as well but along with that

there is a cognitive impulsiveness this

snap decision making this quickness to do
the first thing that pops into your head

without due delay and due diligence

thinking about what the consequences
will be

and then we will also see

the restlessness not just the gross
motor activity but the seat restlessness

which I think affects their school
performance more than

the gross motor activity does but this
will decline with age so that is why

hyperactivity is no longer the name of
this disorder

because it declined steeply and by
adolescence it is nearly gone

and by adulthood it is an internal state
it is a feeling

inwardly of an need to be busy and doing
multiple things

and its a busyness of one's mind

ones ideas there is a restless quality
to their cognition

but not to their outward behavior in
fact our research has shown that

hyperactivity is have no diagnostic
value

in adulthood in fact being restless is
more associated with anxiety disorders

by the time you are 

30 then it is being associated with ADHD
we just don't pay attention to it

it is of no relevance to diagnosis so

let's understand that the real problem
here is not restlessness

it is in fact inhibition their is

a failure to develop appropriate inhibition and it affects your behavior it

affects your words

it affects your mind and your thoughts
and we need to return to the idea which

we have gotten rid of

that it affects your emotions for the
first hundred and seventy years of the

history

of ADHD in the medical literature which
began in 1798

not 1902, eight years ago 

the last remaining copy of a medical
textbook

was discovered at Kent State University
this text book was written by the

Scottish physician

then living in colonial America
Alexander Crichton

and Crichton had written a medical
textbook in which their is

a chapter entitled diseases of attention
and it

is the first description of this
disorder and it's very good by the way

so ADHD did not begin in 1902

it started in 1798 as far as the first
initial

medical reference and from that point on
until 1976

emotion was part

I've ADHD every major theorist

every paper every science paper
including that of Mark Stewart

when the first major scientific
descriptions

the Canadian papers by Whitson heckman
and wary

and Douglas and others back in the
sixties and seventies

all included emotional impulsiveness

as part of this disorder but the DSM

parse to decide and made it and
associated problem in some people

it isn't it is as much a core feature of
this disorder as is any other symptom

in the DSM and that was our mistake

and it needs to be returned to our
understanding

I V DHT by emotional on pole to miss I
mean this quickness to anger

to be easily excitable to have low
frustration tolerance

to be easily angered by things around
you

and to display your emotions much more
quickly

than other people do now this is not a
mood disorder even though it starts to

look like one

mood disorders are where you are
generating too much emotion

but ADHD is is a failure to regulate
normal

emotions it is a self regulation
disorder

the feeling you're having is normal that
you are not moderating it is not

it is this inability to self sues

to self com and to then moderate the
emotion to be more acceptable for the

context

and for what you hope to accomplish here
the goal that is at hand

your long-term welfare is at stake ken

you modified that emotion

to be more socially acceptable to be
less costly

less damaging he that is as much a part
of ADHD is anything else and we are

pushing the dsm-5 committees there are
several

to re incorporate emotional
impulsiveness

and this emotional dysregulation as
being a part of this disorder because it

loads

on this dimension you can not be
impulsive in your behavior and not be

impulsive in your emotions that is
impossible because they are unity

they go together emotion is welded to

everything you say and do sometimes is
benign

and bland other times it is powerful

an intense it is the emotional coloring

of the behavior we display if you are
impulsive in one

you must be in the other that needs to
get

reintroduced back into ADHD for a number
of compelling reasons not just because

historically it was always there but
because it explains so much more

than the current do you have ADHD
explains as I will show you

ADHD children are eleven times more
likely to develop

oppositional defiant disorder within two
years at the onset of their ADHD

why what are those disorders have to do
with each other now they're treated as

simply

co morbidity all well they go together
but we're not sure

but if you put your motion back into
ADHD you see the connection right in 20

DD

because everybody with ADHD is
automatically sub clinically

OD'd at the get-go it on a gonna take
one

more symptom to cross the diagnostic
threshold

in other words ADHD causes oded

that is an important thing to understand
because the OD'd

while it does have some social
influences over it

half %uh DD is the inability to manage
frustration

impatience and anger and that will set
you up

for the second component AVO DD which is
interaction

conflict defiance arguing

but the first four symptoms up the H in
OD'd

our mood anger temper

hostility easily annoyed irritability

and that is part of ADHD so we need
dsm-5

then we need families to both understand
the emotion

goes with this disorder it is not a
separate

comorbidity in some cases

and now we know why when we treat ADHD

particularly with the medications that
we use we get nearly as much reduction

and OD'd

as we get an ADHD and when we don't

it is because of the social conflict
component

which is learned and we will have to

unlearned that little piece but the mood
component is he ADHD component

now by returning emotion into ADHD it
also helps families to understand some

of the other life course risks

fifty to seventy percent of ADHD
children are utterly rejected by close

friendships by second-grade

it is in fact one other more devastating
consequences have this disorder

is this inability to make and keep close

sustained friendships with other
children and it is

heartbreaking for parents to see this
happening

but their child is not as liked as other
children

that the sleepovers the going to the
movies and the other social events

in which other children celebrate their
peer relationships

are shut off for this trial why is it
there

the single best predictor a peer
rejection

is that symptom the emotional

impulsiveness friends forgive you your
distractibility

your forgetfulness you're working memory
problems

and even your restlessness they will not
forgive your anger

your hostility the quickness with which
you emote

to other people because it is offensive

it is socially costly so now we can
begin to understand the numerous social

problems

that ADHD children are prone to because
it arises from

this aspect above the inhibitory deficit

there are other things that it explains
I could do a whole hour and a half as I

did a month ago in Toronto

on the importance of emotion in ADHD I
won't go there

but suffice to say that it explains the
road rage during driving

the job dismissals which are not the
result %uh inattentiveness

but I being too quick to anger too quick
to express raw emotion in the workplace

%uh which employers are not tolerant

especially if it occurs with a customer

and it also explains to us the marital
difficulties

and the parenting difficulties these
children may be prone to

because the single best predictor of
marital problems in the adult with ADHD

is not distractibility it is a motion

so we can begin to paint a better
picture understanding ADHD in its life

course Rhys

by understanding the nature of the
inhibitory problem

and that it includes emotion

as part of it and not just slide 1 I've
got 85 slide

do you see why i'm concerned. with

15 minutes to do is lie alright so we
better get rolling here

but I thought you ought to know where
we're going and by the way in case you

hadn't noticed

I will not talk down to you today I will
treat you as if you were my colleagues

my students my peers

because I think the parents attend these
things to learn

and that's not going to happen if I have
to dumb this material down

and it is also insulting and I won't
insult your intelligence either

you're knowledgeable people I'll speak
to you frankly

using the scientific term on K

