Okay the next things I want to

parents to understand is to avoid
treatments that we know

don't work or that have a very low
probability

of succeeding by the way if these don't
correspond to your

manual exactly a change to fewer than
yesterday

okay I try to keep my size as up to date
as possible or when I go through a man I

don't like the teaching that the flow I
may change them a little bit so if

you're not seeing exactly what I have my
apologies

min you've got 99 percent of what I've
been talking about

these are the things to avoid

why because either they're so silly
we're never gonna look at 'em

or they've already been looked at and
they don't work taking something

out at the diet benefits about one out
of every 20 ADHD children were talking

here about

colorings flavorings and preservatives
do some

ADHD children react adversely these yes
do most

no mainly children 5 younger

and it's about one in 20 so

do we recommend elimination diet as a
blanket panacea treatment for ADHD as

was done by feingold and others

no might benefit the occasional rare
child yes

next there is nothing you can put in the
diet the treats this disorder

so whether it's anti-oxidants whether
it's the fish oils whether to make a

vitamins

we have yet to find anything the
benefits ADHD

the fish oil study the best one was
published just a month ago by the

Swedish

research team in Gothenburg our best
trial I've ever seen

and a reported very so bring negative
results only 25 percent of the kids

responded it was mainly the inattentive
ESET kids

the degree response was very slight so
even day recommended against it

any positive report you've heard were
not from well-controlled studies

now I get to my questions in just a
moment

short me

thanks I am sorry that I'm him

next fastest-growing treatment in the US
school system right now for ADHD sensory

integration training this is a special
set of exercises done by some

occupational therapists who got
additional training

in the SI techniques and in assessing
for sensor integration problems

this has been resoundingly disproved so
this is an area that has been studied

but you'd never know it by the number of
people being exposed to this treatment

it has proven to be of no benefit for
LD's

poor ADHD even their own journal
published a meta-analysis that showed

that

and yet we go on seeing sensory
integration being offered

as a special setup exercises to treat
ADHD

Whitewood massaging the head do anything
for ADHD

yet chiropractors do engage in what is
called school massage

or neurological organization training
claiming that they can

successfully treat ADHD through school
massage

too silly idea we will go there play
therapy has been tested

it does not work for ADHD because ADHD
does not arise from

environmental stress so why would
helping children cope with stress

solve this problem that does not mean it
may not benefit anxious children PTSD

children or children with depression

but it doesn't benefit ADHD children for
their ADHD

self control training I mentioned
earlier this is talking to yourself

so teaching children to talk out loud as
they perform a task we had great hopes

for this

and it failed but the diamond and not
done he possibly found that it was

age-related

the younger you are the less likely it
works but by late adolescence to

adulthood

it does work but only if you're on
medication

it is a supplement to medication not
perform

or alternative to medication there are
several books on the market now that

were developed by these researchers one
is Steve Safran at Harvard med school

he now has a cognitive therapy manual
for adult ADHD

and the other is by Russell ramzi at
Penn State University Pennsylvania

you could find both these at Amazon or
at the ATT warehouse

dot com if you're into adult ADHD
treatment social skills training should

not be done for the average ADHD child
unless it's being done

at school or with the peer group with
whom he is having trouble

and then it should be mostly practice

cuing and rewarding the use up the skill

and a lot less time spent in training

the skill what's the proportion 80/20
eighty percent

altering the point performance 20
percent training in the skill

and if you follow that balance and you
do it out there where it matters

it might have a chance if you do it in a
clinic with the kids will never see

again the rest of his life

it doesn't work

