So by changing the environment you're
going to be able to help compensate for

the impaired executive abilities

now the ADHD view of ADHD

the attention view does not tell you
what to do does not not one

which doesn't guide me if you tell me
somebody is an attentive

I don't know what to do for them what
more coffee as ice n

but if you tell me somebody has an
executive disorder

I will give you five things to do
immediately

that any point in performance goodness

its 330 can I give you a break right
after this one occurred number one

your child cannot stop

and hope things in mind so don't make
'em

you need to use external

physical forms I've information which
means

sticky notes signs symbols charts jus

reminders the issue here is not the what

it's the Y you must find a substitute

for working memory and that means
something

external the information whatever is
that is key

for you to remember right here right now
needs to be

outside up your brain in

the visual field you've got to

externalize is the phrase for that the
information that other people

are holding in mind it's what we are
doing after age 55 and women in Cary

menopause we are using a lot a sticky
notes let me tell ya because I'm 59

years old and I already have

a little ADHD working memory disorder as
do most women by the way hit women

harder than men

but it hurts us both nevertheless role
running around with lists

what was I doing my wife even has a
digital memory recorder in her car so

that when she's out and she has to
remember something she dictated in there

so she can listen back

and remember what the heck she was
supposed to buy at the shopping

Center you see what we're all doing

making up for a working memory deficit
you need to do the same thing with ADHD

turn it on with ADHD you should not be
going anywhere without

a paper journal in your pocket with the
pen because anything you agree to do

for anything others ask you to do is to
be immediately written in a journal

in a journal is welded to your body that

is your working memory you said and by
the way we find

journals are better than digital devices
because they lose the devices and they

don't remember to turn them on

they don't remember to dictate into one
so as good as those things may sound as

high tech as they are the good old paper
and pencil notebook

seems to do the job okay and if I were
you I would even have it on a chain like

a motorcycle gang member has

while it is there from sunup to sundown
ma'am when you put your pants on that is

in it

all the time and now you have a working
memory

you have no internal clock

so if anything involves time there must
be a timer

there must be something physical outside
a view that signals the passage of time

for young children cooking timers are
great but there are various other

devices including watches the beep every
five minutes and vibrators you can buy

at the ATT warehouse dot com

that have digital timers building and
you can set them to just by greed in

your pocket

every so often I don't care what the
stimulus is this is the Y

people not the watch but why is

you have notes n stuff time so if I give
you something that involves time

I have got to give you a timer and if
this extends more than just a few

minutes to a half hour

you're gonna need a day planner a Palm
Pilot or some other means of keeping

track of time

a week at a glance calendars not a bad
thing either but you're going to become

a timer and calendar

dependent addicted so that you can
organize your life

as well as other people who don't need
to rely on those things so much

you cannot see the future coming at you
so if there is something you agree to do

over time

if this child has a book reporter a
science project you're gonna break that

into baby steps

into a piece today you are not going to
point at the future and keep harping

about summer reading

have you done your summer reading we've
got a book report that's due next week

have you done that right

not we are going to take the book report
and you were going to read three pages

today

you're going to write four sentences
today and I will give you 15 tokens

right now

and that's how we're going to get this
done we are gonna break the future

into pieces and do a piece today and
stop pointing at the future because you

can organize to the future

that is your disability I going on to an
inpatient unit at the psychiatric

hospital saying

cap these people loosening around here
what's going on

it's an inpatient unit there
schizophrenics what did you think right

you should not be shocked at that you
have to break things down for people at

a time management disorder

and so you should do it for people with
ADHD as well

rate the future into pieces by the way
what is your opinion on this

it means that the future comes out you
in three pieces the events that are

coming toward you

the responses you prepare and the
consequences

the outcomes have what you're doing he
are

I'll so here's a lesson I would want his
family to understand

if those he's an arson ozark kept close
together

you don't need a frontal lobe and ADHD
people can do them that a video game

but the minute you stretch these things
apart with time

like a book report you've got to read
this book

you reports due in 30 days it'll take a
week to great all the papers

I just put a month between the Emer and
a week between the re-do

and if you have a DHT you're disabled
big time

so the solution is to get these arsenals
back together and that means baby steps

little E our toll bridges across time
and that's how you would do

a future sign now how we gonna deal with
the

fourth executive function deficit the
emotional

motivational 1 it means all motivation

is external we already talked about this

which means I am going to have to have
something in it for you

if you are going to persist so stop
whining

stop complaining why you have to offer
something

for this child to work the reason you
don't offer two other children is day

have internal motivation ADHD children
do not

so don't worry that by paying them
tokens for doing their reading or their

assignments are somehow going to

pervert a sense I love

doing things for their own reward or
just you

being a good citizen for the sake of
being a good citizen that is not going

to work for ADHD

the ADHD child is donald Trump incarnate
and there better be

a deal and if there is no deal

it 8 getting done so to borrow a phrase
from steven covey

please think win win

a win for them not just to win for you
and that means you are going to have to

drop in the points that opens the
privileges the sex for drugs and money

in the car

my medications are turning off my feet

the last executive function which is
mental play it's the ability to

manipulate the contents of your mind

in creative ways to invent multiple
possibilities very hard for these people

why they can to mental arithmetic as
well as others 20 can to judgment

backward as well as others

for their trouble playing a little
musical game Simon

working memory but if you can't hold
things in working memory then you can't

manipulate your working memory

and that's where the source a planning
and problem solving are coming from so

what do we do what we're gonna take the
same word we did before external lights

were gonna make problem-solving

manual physical

you get to do with your hands so the
check math problems when you give you a

bunch marbles a number line

and a Bacchus or calculator but the
first three

would suffice right you gonna do math
with your hands to wait originally was

done

I'm not going to ask you to do with me
taking your head you're gonna find that

to be difficult you need a crutch

you need an external prosthesis

to help you with your math now what if
this is a durable

problem our task like you gotta write a
story or an essay or something

I'm gonna give you stack up three by
five file cards now want to sit down and

put your mind on

don't I wanted to give any idea you can
come up with that has to do with this

subject

go I wanna thought per card I don't care
what order I don't care what sequence

just let your mind run wild

but just give me a thought a card now
I'm going to take your cards

and reorganize them and now we've been
physical and now we can create the story

and the plotline and if you do this on a
laptop computer

inward you can even move around spell
checking companies to do all that needs

to pick at it now

external ideas had become shit

and that's the secret here make the
mental information

physical in some way and then

they might be able to do it this may
explain why more people with ADHD wind

up in the tradesmen in

any other professions I used to think it
was because the trade deal requires much

advanced education

I now think it's probably also the fact
that its

manual whether you're a carpenter a
plumber a landscaper a bricklayer a

tuner electric Shin

tuner pianos I meant to say or others

you are doing something manual and not
me matter

we'll see lastly ATT really occurs alone

ADHD children are at risk for all love
these other disorders

in fact eighty percent of ADHD children
and adults will have one of these other

disorders in fifty percent will have it
is to have these other disorders

so seeing ADHD by itself is very rare

seeing ADHD link up with a few other
disorders is not rare

very common and so I would want families
understand that

we may have to treat other disorders not
just the ADHD

the ADHD may be one problem and it may
be the biggest most comparing problem

but it's not the only problem that we
may have to deal with

and on that note we are going to give
you 810 minute break

you will be called back at 10 minutes 24
because I got fifteen other ideas I

wanna share

