So I would want parents to understand

that that is a very profound disturbance
in a person's behavior

but it arises out of Neurology Internet

X and out if this is going to come a
very important view of what to do

about this disorder the first thing this
is going to mean

yes to stop teaching so many damn skills

because you're approaching this child is
if you stupid

right although he doesn't have any
friends I guess

who doesn't know social skills so we'll
take another local clinic and we'll roll

in a 12-week social skills camp about
which will probably pay fifty to a

hundred dollars a session

or we'll send em to the Upper Peninsula
Michigan where there's a nice summer

social skills camp that was advertised
in Chad attention magazine

there is probably a very nice camp I
don't mean to belittle it I'm just

telling you what will do no good

rent well

now let's understand I might want to
send a child to camp just to have fun

right it's hard to the quality of life
goal have a nice summer

but if I'm sending you to camp with the
belief that you're going to come back

a person with better social skills
you're sadly mistaken

so we have got to stop putting all the
eggs

in the skill training basket because
that's not where the problem is

we have got to spend more time changing

the point a performance the point
performances were you should be using

what you know

and you're not and the only way to treat
a performance disorder

is to change that point this means that

all treatment if it is going to work at
all

must be at the point performance the
place in your life

where you're not using what you already
know and if the intervention isn't done

there

it's useless and has been a major
finding the last decade

the only treatments that work are
treatments that modified

those natural points in the environment
where the problems are occurring

enough those are modified nothing done
away from that site

will do anything so you can do pull ups
services

you can go to summer over to a social
skills camps

you can go to a special ed you can come
and see me for once a week for

psychotherapy

and everything I just said we'll have no
generalization maintenance

well go anywhere won't even leave this
room Howard a pic of Tulsa beautiful

story the social skills group B ran on
the day they covered

anger management and sharing he open the
door to the room in there was a fist

fight in the hall by the elevator

over who is going to push the button

so much for your

anger management she see what happens
you were focusing on knowledge

oleg d teach you how to share and
cooperate

any missed the point this is not
information deficit disorder

this is performance deficit disorder

so you gotta change those point to
perform it if he has no friends on the

playground you're gonna have to do
something

at that school if you have trouble with
homework at the kitchen table honey

it's not my office we need to rearrange
where the home work is being done to

help them show what they know

as I've already said this point of view
also then makes us look very differently

in psychopharmacology as a form of neuro
genetic treatment

now everything I've just said could be
used by any parent to come up to me and

say

much I got thrown out of school
yesterday for some misbehavior

would you please go to school and get
him reinstated he should not be held

accountable for

these consequences right because after
all can you just say to your genetic

disorder

so let me help you understand something
about what I just said

ADHD does not cause a problem with
consequences

the problem is with time it was the
delaney

to the consequence the disabled you
which means

that I'm going to do the opposite up
with this mother is asking increase

accountability

not decrease it increase the frequency

immediacy the salient and the timing
have consequences

people with ADHD need more
accountability not

no accountability in fact this view Ave
DG is an executive disorder would tell

you that if you

argue for no accountability you will
make this disorder worse

not better because the problem

is the delay and all natural
consequences

%uh any importance are delayed

what does that mean

we are going to have to use behavioral
treatments the beam on programs that

opens the church the cards the smart
stickers whatever

what is their purpose their purpose is
not to teach that is a

missed nomer if you will their purpose

is to sprinkle artificial consequences
into these two ladies

in the natural environment in order to
increase your accountability

so they're not teaching anything they
are making up for

the accountability deficit disorder be
mine

does not teach anything to eat each the
children really

what it does is improved the motivation
to show what you know

by making you more accountable more
often

around you you have less ADHD

by excusing from the consequences you be
more ADHD

so what you understand something there
are two reasons why we would tell

you as a family to do behavior
modification

one is instructional this is why we
teach families have artistic and

mentally retarded children be remote
application

to teach their children things they
don't know

but the second purpose you would you be
much for has nothing to do with

instruction

its motivational to make up for the
motivation deficit disorder that this

disorder produces

and so if you do be marred for its
motivational value

you can't stop it because if you pull it
you pulled the motivation

if you do be moderate instructional
purpose you can pull it

because once they've acquired the skills
to use the skill and you don't worry

about it anymore

now do you see a a contrast you most
parents

in nearly all teachers I deal with
believe that be mired

is for instructional value that's why we
do it for ADHD which is why when are you

going to a school in you try to teach a
teacher to set up a token system

the first question out of his mouth is
how long do I have to do this

when we internalize the program and my
interest

never

choices in your class you will have to
rearrange artificial consequences

to replace the delayed once and if you
don't do that he will not work for you

so I want you to think about token
systems and star charts and all behavior

modification

as being equivalent to a ramp that comes
into this building

that ramp is there to make people

who are physically disabled less moto
wrigley impaired

they can get into the building in their
wheelchairs or whatever other devices

they're using

but would you ever say to such a person

after 30 days are venturing this
building successfully using the ramp

you know with

you know the punchline right can I take
the Riverway have they internalize the

ramp

of course not the ramp was never for
teaching

right the ramp is a prosthesis

a prosthesis is an artificial means

I've reducing the disabling consequences
a few disorder

it is not to train you up into anything
no amount of using a ramp

is going to take the ramp away and no
amount to be modest going to take to be

modded way

these individuals will always need

more frequent consequences around them
then we'll other people in order to

perform at the same level

it's just a general corollary have ADHD
so we don't have we learned about ADHD

well if all treatment is at that point
to perform internet at that point

performance I'm trying to arrange a
prosthesis

a prosthetic environment to reduce the
impairment from the disability

right then it means that the caregivers
are the most important people

in the treatment plan the parents and
the teachers it is their compassion

for disabled people and their
willingness to make these prosthetic

accommodations

that is the heart any successful
intervention

and absent that compassion no amount

of quality in a good professional or
therapist is going to change that

you have to make those people
stakeholders you gotta get them invested

and if they're not

you're in trouble it doesn't matter how
good a clinician you are

so it's best to look at ADHD I would be
telling these families in my office

like we look at diabetes largely a
chronic disorder

and our goal is to manage it

to create a reduction in the symptoms

the purposive which is the avoidance of
secondary harm

we do not treat diabetes to get rid of
it

we treated to prevent what happens to
you if you don't manager diabetes

because you will go blind

and your heart muscle atrophy and you
are at risk for sudden death

and you will get gangrene and you may
have your toes or fingers are other

appendages eventually amputated

if we do not manage your insulin levels
that is what we try to prevent

but no amount of treating diabetes as
ever designed to get rid of the

diabeetus

and I think a DH is a very good analogy
I think we manage adhe to prevent the

secondary harms what I'm about to show
you

we don't manage ADHD to get rid of it we
manage it so that you don't experience

those more genus consequences

