So then as a parent

now that you know ADHD in you know that
a more profound

and a more impairing disorder

start what can you do I want you to take
three roles and you can read about these

in my book taking charge ADHD the first
row every parent should play

is to become a scientific parent which
means make yourself an expert

I want you know me as much as the
professionals know so you should be

reading widely because truth is an
assembled thing it doesn't come from a

single website

or source it comes from integrating
across those and seeing the reliable

information to keep showing up

across the various sources such a
reading so whether you go to Chad dot

org or ATT dot org or character

or or the other web sites read

learned become an expert know as much as
you can just like a family have a

diabetic child needs to know diabetes
inside and out if they can appropriately

cope with and compensate for that child
psych beat us and then just like a

scientist you're going to have to
experiment there are hundreds of things

that you can do but they don't all work
for every child

so we have to test provides test
provides try it doesn't work if it

doesn't let's move on to something else

so there's a test revise process about
raising an ADHD child you're not gonna

get it perfect

out at the gate and what works for one
parent may not work for your child

and somebody may be on concern about
your child's going to need adderall or

vyvanse respect your

and the same does that work for one may
not work for the other

it is a process of experimenting and
letting your child show you

which have these things may work for
them so

be a experimenter I tell that because
parents come in and they try the tokens

as a minute didn't work in a try timeout

and you're expecting that the first
thing out of the gate is going to be

successful in it isn't always so

you gotta keep trying and I want to
become

very skeptical there's a lot I chunk
knowledge

out there especially on the internet you
type ADHD into Google which I did this

morning

14 million replies there is no way a
parent can search that

for the diamond in the dung heap so

I want you to become

very skeptical if you're not hearing
this information reliably across

different sources

it probably isn't true and if it sounds
too good to be true just like financial

planning

it probably his very so

be careful out there there are magnetic
mattresses there's copper bracelet and

gingko biloba there's omega three sixes

there's anti-oxidant like technology in
our there's so much junk out there

there's a clinic in Las Vegas that will
diagnose your whole family and give you

chips to spend

at the casino now maybe that works I
don't know

right but you get the point alright
there is so much

trash out there that it's hard to sordid

out so that's why you really need to
have your skeptic at on

whenever you're reading anything and
you're looking for reliable

information across sources and then you
will filter out

the germs the next role you need to
become an executive parent need to stop

whining suck it up man up and own

this disorder in dis child this is the
hardest thing for families to do

they learn about it they read it but
they don't necessarily

own it there is a short have if you will

reticence that they have internally that
I see from time to time

where they always hold out this hope
that there are some silver bullet

out there usually on the internet that
if they just ride at

all the problems would be solved we
could give this up he be normal and

let's get on with life

me and I wish there was the silver
bullet but there isn't

so we tell this to ADHD adult as well
it's one thing to know

ADHD it's another thing to own your ADHD

and to make it apart who you are it's
not

olive who you are you may be a gifted
artist you may be a comedian you may be

a scientist you may be a position

none of that has to do with ADHD athe
predispose us to know

gift but you do have other gifts and
other talent at which you are good at

so I want you to embrace ADHD as part of
who you are but not

all of who you are ADHD is a small set
of traitor to the more than 400 that you

were blessed with

so you may be good at love to but I
think let's find those other things

because they're going to have to
compensate

for what your ADHD is tracking down but
don't ever attribute apps other

successful enterprises to your ADHD

cuz it just 8-cell this is no gift

but it doesn't mean you don't have other
talents that we could use to compensate

for

whether you're a good athlete whether
you're Michael Phelps whether you're a

good comedian whether your tie
Pennington on america's Extreme Home

Makeover

who loves to tear down houses and he was
a kid and now he does it for a living

right all of these are ADHD adults

right but they're giftedness is not due
to their ADHD

it was something they found that they
did well that could compensate

for the problems at their ADHD had cost

so becoming executive parent like
becoming executive adult with ADHD

means party vidios I own the disorder my
child has this disorder

cousin to you own it you will not
advocate for this child

and you've got to get out there and
advocate and not let other people take

charge of your child that's why I called
my book taking charge of ADHD

because too many times I went to school
conferences and I saw a parent shit

intimidated by the degree sitting around
the table and saying nothing

about what was being said in that
meeting and I have to remind parents

these people work for you

you are the taxpayer this is your child
you should be running this meeting

I want to come in with a pad and a tape
player know what you turn it in on

know what you're saying to people I'm
not gonna be able to take all the Notre

1 I'm gonna record this meeting

now let's talk about my son let's start
with you euros homeroom teacher what do

you think what's going on here

if you have to run the damn meeting and
if somebody says something you don't

understand

like your child to attack Johnson
psychoeducational IQ was

you were gonna stop this meeting called
in its tracks I don't know what you're

talking about

right because you can see a lot of
jargon tossed around by school

professionals

party which is showing off so stop it

right if you don't understand it you
advocate and you can advocate

if you don't know what they're talking
about and then the final decisions are

always

yours whatever the list of
recommendations are because sometimes

the recommendations don't fit your child

this is just a list of recommendations
that applied ADHD plain vanilla

and you may not have plain vanilla so
you're gonna have to look at those you

know your child better than anybody else
and you will pick and choose from those

the ones you believe

are most suitable to your family to your
child to your values and so on

but you run the meeting and you don't
sign off on

anything that you're not comfortable
with I love parent to come

in and give me grief I do not like pair
to come in and sit like a bunch of milk

toast sitting in an office

and just listening listening listening
and not asking questions and not

advocating

and not telling me I don't think that's
going to work his grandparents are not

gonna buy concerta

they're gonna take us to court for child
abuse you gotta help me with that

that's a true story now comes from my
nephew so consequently

families need to speak up how do I know
that your grandparents are resistant to

medication

and that they will make your life
miserable if you don't tell me

okay now I can tell you how to help the
grandparents but you see if the parent

doesn't talk about

I don't know home I can help you cope
with that

rule number two advocate number three

if you haven't read coverage The seven
Habits of Highly Effective People you

better

in fact the better book is The seven
Habits of Highly Effective families

because we have found that more than any
other families families raising disabled

children

really need to learn and utilize these

covey has at the back of the book a
diagram that looks like an hour class

that has all seven principles built into
these two

upside-down triangles photocopy it

and tape it to your bathroom mirror when
you are putting on your makeup or

shaving in the morning

I want those seven habits in the corner
love your visual field

that use your morning reminder to try to
get it

right I do that you should do that and I
didn't raise ADHD children

but these are very could principles

for interpersonal relationships and a
specially if you have a disabled child

so if you're not familiar with that
these are the seven principles you can

read more about them

