Your child because the executive defcit

is going to need to be made more
accountable to others we've already

talked about a lot of this but let's
just go back over in more specifics

first you need to be much more
consistent with the rules and

consequences and raising this child than
normal parents need to be

and that's not because you're going to
engineer the ADHD

out of the child it's because you're
going to make this child less disabled

from there ADHD by doing that ADHD is
not information deficit disorder so

kindly shut up

Act Don't Yak the more you blather

the more you natter the more you nag
the less influence you have

so stop thinking that one more sentence
will be enough to tip the scales in

favor of obedience

it isn't if I can just say it one more
time I know he'll listen

so on the 20th time they re our fingers
crossed behind your back

K some say it once then back it up

what these kids listen to more than
anything or the immediate consequences

not the nattering not a nagging not the
moral essays on why you should clean up

your room to avoid meningitis

now with ADHD children you've got to get
their attention one of the easiest ways

to do it

and also an affectionate way is to touch
them so I want you to put your hand on

their arm on their hand or around their
shoulder

when you talk to them I want you to look
in their eye

in with that Clint eastwood look I want
you to keep it short

and sweet what do you want done what are
you trying to say

or is this positive feedback is
disapproval

is this recognition is the sprays but
touch

then talk keep it short keep it sweet

get to the point and then back it up all
right if you're a pair with an ADHD

child you better be setting a timer to
go off every few minutes

checked on where that child is this is
to avoid accidental injury

it is also to catch problems before they
occur

in order to be a proactive parent and
I'll show you what we call the

transition plan in a moment I want you
to increase the frequency of

consequences for this trial

your child needs much more external
consequences and other people

so there's no need to apologize for you
not gonna turn them into some little

materialistic it because he already is
anyway

okay okay here's one he's got a short
attention span

done break the work in too small

pieces stop trying to torture his
attention span

to become longer than it possibly could
ever be to remember the thirty percent

rule

reduce the age by 30 percent that
attention span I have to cut the work

into that short appearing so instead of
30 problems all at once

you get five then you do them bring them
up to me I will take up your citizenship

of the next five math problems and give
them back to you

this is how you going to take exams this
is how you going to do you work

small chunks frequent breaks not

one chunk all at once by the way that is
better than giving extra time on an exam

even to a college student

extra time on an exam to someone but no
sense of time

is a dumb idea you stole that from the
learning disabilities to get you to know

what the heck I'll to ask for so I guess
we'll just at a rest but I'm

but extra time to somebody with this
disorder is the definition of hell

you wanna know why because if you have
no sense of time

I want you to remember back to when you
were five it was the week before

christmas what I don't feel like I'm

like molasses just loled moving well
that's what it feels like to somebody

with ADHD

and you just gave him an extra our
lower-grade each

they're up there out there out the door
before you even know what I love this

extra time recommendation at its so
stupid

right what you should be doing is called
time

of the clock you get a stopwatch I'm not
stop part is going to be the length of

time

everybody else gets start to watch
anytime you like

you can stop it stand-up stretch take a
break

ask me a question come back start to
watch you only get the same hour as

everybody else

but you could to break it up as often as
you like will this take

extra time of course but that is merely
a byproduct of the strategy

whereas telling somebody they have extra
time is not a strategy

this is being done throughout the entire
state Indiana by the Educational Testing

Service to prove that it has a more
compelling accommodation

for taking multiple choice time to us
thing is the old

extra time which we already know was
going to fail anyway

break the work into pieces more frequent
breaks

the work will get done you are going to
have to use external timers

we've already talked about that

