Now once you have adopted these three
roles

there is another role I would like you
to assume and this I think just paints the

whole picture this is sort of the

background canvis on which you paint the
rest of this portrait

you need to understand something the
parents these days have long since

forgot

and are going to have to relearn again your
grandparents knew this

but today's generation appearance
doesn't seem too and that is you do not

get to designed your children

nature would never have permitted that
to happen

evolution would not have allowed a
generation other species to be so

influenced

by the previous generation it hasn't
happened and it doesn't happen and it

especially doesn't happen

in children you do not design

your children and yet we have the Mozart
Effect to believe that if I play

classical music to my uterus when I'm
pregnant

I'm gonna have a genius the fact that if
I can just put another crib toys over

his crib

he is going to have all these neurons
exploding with synapse is

and be a brilliant mathematician you

don't get that degree power does that
mean stimulation doesn't matter no

it means a stimulation environment is
better than a deprived environment

but it doesn't mean that the more
stimulation you add in the environment

the better it gets a threshold

there was another stimulation that every
normal brain needs to develop and

muncher passed out with 98 percent if
you are

the restive it is outta your hands but
this idea that if a little bit as good a

ton if it must be better is a uniquely
North American perspective

believe me the French don't look as
kindly on their children as we do

run I'm that's another story for another
day

so what we have learned in the last 20
years every search

in neuroimaging behavior genetics
developmental psychology neuropsychology

can be boiled down to

this trains your child is born with more
than four

100 psychological traits that will
emerge

as they mature and they have nothing to
do with you

so the idea that you're going to
engineer personalities and I Q an

academic achievement skills and all
these other things

just isn't true your child is not

a blank slate on which you get to write
if you would like to read more about

this please read Steven Pinker spoke to
blank slate

which is a review of all of this
information for parents and why

it isn't true the better view is that
your child is a genetic

mosaic of your extended family which
means this is a unique combination

up the traits that run in your family
line I like the shepherd you

you are a shepherd you don't design
sheep the engineering view makes you

responsible for and

for everything everything that goes
right and everything that goes wrong

this is my parents come to us with such
guilt more guilt than we've ever seen in

prior generations

because parents today believe that it's
all about them and what they do

in if they don't get it right or if your
child has a disability

they've done something wrong when in
fact the opposite is true

this has nothing to do with your
particular brand have parenting

so I would rather that you stop thinking
yourself as an engineer

and step back and say I am a shepherd to
a unique

individual Shepherds are powerful people

they picked the pastors in which the
sheep will graze and develop and grow

they determine whether they're properly
nourished they determine whether they're

protected from harm

the environment is important but it
doesn't to sign the sheep

no Shepherd is gonna turn a sheep into a
dog ain't gonna happen

in that that is what we see parents
trying to do all the time

and especially parents of children with
disabilities so step back and yourself

as the shepherd to this disabled
youngster

and you get to design the pasture and
that's very important

but you don't engineer the sheep now
that comes with it a profoundly freeing

view of parenting because what it means
is although it's important to be a

shepherd

recognizing that this is a unique
individual before you

allows you to enjoy the show right so
open a bottle of Chardonnay

kick off your slippers sit back and
watch what takes place right

because you don't get to determine that
shirt so enjoyed it doesn't last all

that long anyway they're gone before you
know it

right but if you think that what you did
in your house is going to shape the life

course if this individual you are sadly
mistaken

this is a unique individual let them
grow let them prosper please design

appropriate environment around them

but you don't get to design them as Judy
Harris said in 1996 in the first book on

this subject

written for laypeople the book is called
the nurture assumption

as she said you had more to do with your
child's life

but where you chose to live than by
anything you whatever do inside at home

short abuse neglect or malnutrition

the rest a bit is just trivial Jerry
action

it's where you live why because

out-of-home influences are more powerful
in shaping the life course if your child

then in home influences are and those
out at home

influences our peer group other adults

neighborhoods resources schools

and the larger community that you made
available to this child

that is how you shape your child's life
course the second biggest influence

is also out of your hands and that's
genetics and you don't get to determine

that

but if you think parenting is so
influential

let me give you two findings that have
been replicated many times

when we follow up twins we are able to
calculate how much of their behavior is

due to parenting

within family environment and here's
what we find

the peak years a parental influence are
below seven

from seven on 212 it drops dramatically

after 15 at six percent 6 percent of the
variation in a teenager's behavior is

how their parents raise them that it

and after age 21 it 2-0 there is no

influence a parenting on any
psychological trait after the age of 21

now do not mistake when I'm saying the
knowledge

your child possesses what day no

is clearly a function exposure in the
environment

but their traits their ability to their
makeup their personality

is not so the idea that somehow we
design these kids and we can get rid of

ADHD needs to be abandoned

the other research finding is the
following it has been found in every

single study

there was no correlation between any
trade if an adopted child

and the people who raced them none

if you think parenting is so powerful
prove it

otherwise step back accept your role as
a shepherd

do it well and enjoy the show

it's going to be a unique set off
fireworks I guarantee you that

but now not only do you not get the
credit

you also don't have to take the blame
you didn't cause this ADHD

or whatever other disability your child
has

