Now we want you to become

proactive not just in monitoring
where your kids are but also

in transitioning across activities

so that when you are making

your change in what your family is doing
with this child I want you to stop

so everything stops okay

hold your horses wait a second its
homework time so

turn off the TV stop the action

and then I want to review two or three
rules dis child is to follow in the next

activity

and want you to set up what is the
incentive what in it for him what are

you offering

points tokens privileges

extra time on Nintendo or Gameboy or we
hear whatever what you offering

right next what's the punishment what
you gonna lose

make it clear you gonna lose their
privileges gonna lose those points

you can lose that time on that computer
or you going to time out

make it obvious get the rules up front

along with the consequences now I wanted
to distribute the consequences through

out the task you don't wait a little
over should be

rewards every so often during the task
or they'll never finish

then I want to review with them what do
you think how did you do

how can we do this better get their
opinion invite them to self evaluate the

activity

if you will do that you look at your
problems by fifty percent

what do most parents and teachers do
they do reactive parenting

you go about minding your own business
doing your laundry fixing dinner

until the problem occurs and now you are
a problem

oriented person all you're doing is
reactive firefighting we call

had you just set your plan up front

whether it's before you go into a store
or a restaurant or you start homework or

we go to research all we have friends
visit

or we go in grandma's house everyone out
there was a major transition

you need to stop and do transition
planning now what are you gonna do when

your child is not with you

you gonna get a behavior monitoring card
like the kind we use for school but this

can be used anywhere

anytime it can be used for Cub Scout
literally soccer

hockey going to a friend's house
spending the afternoon or evening or

weekend with grandparents having a baby
sitter

anyplace this kid is going to be and
you're not there

you can monitor it with a monitoring
card in the case of school

you can use these rules and there's
enough room for all of his teachers and

classes to evaluate him using the rating
at the top of the card

1 through 5 when this card comes home
from school

every teacher will have rated this child
at the end of every class

will have initialed it to insure against
forgery because they will forge discard

so let's anticipate that

alright and then the parents going to
review the card and the pointer in

parentheses are too many points you earn

and in the case of fours and fives which
allows the ratings are too many points

you lose

you are then going to add up two points
attract the negatives

that's what you got to spend in your
home on your

little token system on your reward chart
but you could do this for anything

it could be for bus ride to could be for
lunch room it can be for recess it can

be for scouts

I don't care if he is away from you and
there's another adult there

not other adult can be evaluating your
child frequently whether it every 15

minutes whether

at the end of every 45 min to class
period as it is in school

doesn't matter frequent evaluation comes
back to you

you deliver the full consequences based
on that card and here again you can

start to cut down problems by

increasing accountability even in places
where you

