Next to the last idea for you right 25
to 35 percent of the parents of ADHD

children

are ADHD themselves it used to be people

didn't care they didn't ask they didn't want to
know or they didn't think it mattered

now we know it matters first of all

it matters that your own ADHD needs to get
treated because we studied now the

impact of ADHD

on parents whether they have ADHD
children or not

we now has a series of studies
particularly the work of Charlotte

Johnston at University of British Columbia

and Andrea Chronis at University of Maryland
who have now studied parents who have this

disorder and what it does to their
parenting

and you can see the obvious things here
greater impulsiveness higher rates have

of expressed emotion

greater rates of disciplining lower
rates

of parental monitoring of children all
of which increases the risk for

oppositional disorder

in the child so the parent ADHD

needs to be detected and managed not just
the child's ADHD

and also more recently it is the best
predictor of who fails

in behavioral parent training if the
parent themselves has the same disorder

my last admonition to you is one that
Leah busque el you wrote about thirty

years ago

in his book for families have retarded
an autistic children

in this book this guy a said 10 most
important things a family over disabled

youngster can do

is to practice forgiveness and he meant
by this four things

you better get good at forgiving
yourself

for your mistakes you will make them we
all make them

even raising normal children you will
make more of them BS ADHD children know

just how to push your buttons to get you
to do things you'll regret

so you better get good at forgiving
yourself those mistakes and if Julie

Harris is correct you don't matter
anyway

you not as important as you thought you
were

so relax a little bit it's okay you know
what really matters asthma scalia said

you try to get it right the next time
it's not did you make the mistake

it's what you gonna do about it tomorrow
to make sure that it doesn't happen

again

at a very important ideas one other
things that I think

arm that will be very helpful in helping
you to do this

I is to step back to that principle
about being a shepherd

you're not an engineer so it matters
what you do but it doesn't matter that

much what you do

and I find it's better if you have the
shepherds you because you start to look

at your children in a very different
light

as things to be enjoyed and celebrated
and cherish for their uniqueness

as opposed to being mounds have claimed
that you can sculpt into whatever you

choose to do

he just don't have that kind of power
the second

area of forgiveness is that if your
child this is harder

okay this is harder because resentment
can build up the mistakes are there the

misbehavior there you are being given

misbehavior 20 course happen but you
have to deal with

you have had to step up to the plate and
become your child's frontal lobes

it's not easy it is exhausting and
there's a tendency among some parents to

allow a certain amount of with
gentleness to creep into this

I wish that you had a different child a
better child a normal child

and boy that is just one step away from
just to find child abuse

the idea that your child may be doing
this intentionally

is one of the sources are present on us
so you better get good for giving these

kids their mistakes they make a lot of
them

so here's a couple suggestions that
parents have told me about their work

for them and I love these ideas and I
put him in my parents book

number one at the end up the day

after dinner when you're having your
coffee or your cognac or whatever

want you to take out a sheet of paper I
want to write down

all the problems you had with this kid
today right amado

every one of them alright exorcise your
demons

get him down on the paper and want to go
to the sink take a match in like him

much to burn em all up there they go
gone

you have now perform the ritual
ex-assistant the demons are gone the day

is over

let gate goal aren't

the second thing when the parents taught
me that she found was so useful

is after your child has fallen asleep go
upstairs

said on the floor in a yoga position you
know

and watch your child sleep

just breathe in and out and watch
there's nothing more

innocent and watching a young child
sleep

enough dot doesn't renew your batteries
and restore your balance to your view of

your child I'm not sure what will

maybe a glass of wine while you're
watching the child with

but whatever it takes to let these goal

and to try to get better tomorrow that's
what really matters

not the mistakes you make and the same
applies to your partner your spouse

don't get all upset because they're not
doing a quite the way you want it done

or vice versa and then of course the
last one is the one you're all here for

I hope as well

and that is to learn more about ADHD but
in learning you realize that the public

doesn't understand this disorder the way
we do

that they are ignorant but this disorder
and its causes

so you better get good for giving other
people who Claire

at you in Walmart because your child is
a handful

who stare at you in the Outback
restaurant

who look at you as if this is your fault
my sister-in-law

as an ADHD son this is my nephew damn

one time she was in target in an older
woman came over to her and said

why don't you control your child you
know this is all your fault

if young parents like you would just
take this bull by the horns and

discipline these kids for

we wouldn't be having this from and she
followed my sister-in-law

out the car out to the to the car at the
car stood there yelling at her washy

locked her door and she was in cheers
over this

now that's an extreme example but don't
tell me this can happen

most if you have had these looks thrown
at you

about your child and sometimes it goes
up a notch

so you better get a thick skin about the
public that doesn't understand this

disorder

now there's a cognitive therapy
technique that you can use

while you're looking at these people you
can be saying in your mind

what it to your porch face

but I don't want you to say it Oklahoma

right this is just cognitive therapy

you're a new two-year you don't know
what you're talking about if you in 10

these kids

walk a mile in my shoes but just shut up
drive on

get on with your life but you better get
good for giving the public the

misunderstanding

because boy do they misunderstand this
disorder

I'll hang around for a few questions but
I hope you enjoyed the 30 things

families need to understand

