The second dimension failing to develop
on schedule will appear about 2 to

3 years after

and this is known as the attention
deficit but it isn't

here again we have a misnomer there are
at least six or seven kinds up attention

and supporting networks in the human
brain they are not all disrupted by this

disorder

what we want to know is which one to
help us with differential diagnosis to

help us tell

ADHD from an anxiety disorder and from
autism and all the other psychiatric

disorders which all interfere with
attention at some point in life

ADHD is not the only attention-deficit

we need to be more precise if someone
comes to us and says my child or I

inattentive that is useless
diagnostically

what I need to know is to nature

up the inattentiveness and we have now
known for a decade

that the inattentiveness that we see in
ADHD is distinct

from that produced by all other
disorders because it is most

I think accurately described as a
failure

of persistence the first attention
problem is persistence toward a goal

notice that this implies behavior
motivation

and the future that is very important
the other forms of attention do not

ADHD is not a problem of perception

us children of processing how the post
your your part of our brain functions

it is a problem weird the motor part of
the brain

this Frontalot can you sustain

action toward a goal adequately to
attain it

that implies a motivation deficit and
that is true

and it implies future directed behavior
and that is true

ADHD is a failure to direct behavior
forward in time

we cannot persist toward

these delayed en pointe in life

the cash the goals the things that need
to get done

so persistent its deficit one

in the area of attention now to persist
toward a goal

you must be able to resist distractions
but that too

is not a perceptual issue it is a motor
issue the person with ADHD

does not have problems with perceiving
distractors better than others

it is that they respond to distractors
more than others

and dad is an inhibitory failure not a
perceptual difference

you and I may also hear the noise in the
kitchen

the person with ADHD is compelled to
react to what

all did you hear that I guess they're
washing dishes maybe I'll stop in and

take a look

did you know I was a dishwasher when I
was back in college that's how I earn my

way

to see what's going on here you all
heard the dish but it was your relevance

to what we're here to do today

but to the ADHD individual the
distraction

is going to provoke a response and the
response can be inhibited

and now they're off to the races
skipping from one thing to another time

another

now there is a third aspect here that is
impaired

but it is not one of attention most
people when they're distracted reengage

the incomplete a goal

the person with ADHD is far less likely
to do so

and this has nothing to do with the
tension this

is working memory so I would want a
family to understand that there's more

here than

inattentiveness there was a working
memory disorder

and I would want them to know that
working memory is one of the five

special executive functions but the
human brain

suggesting that ADHD is he FDD

executive function deficit disorder
because working memory is where we

remember what we're doing

it is remembering so as to do it is
consciously effort fully holding in mind

the what the winner of what we are doing

it's what you lose at my age

and when you hit menopause

you do not lose memory you lose

working memory you forget what you were
doing

where you were going what the goal was

the steps to the goal how you were
getting there it is that that allows you

to reengage the incomplete a goal

because you are holding in mind the goal
it is that which ADHD children and

adults will lose

the goal is gone it is for gotten and
now

anything else compelling around them
will capture their behavior

hence the symptom skips from one in
completed

activity to another the ability to
reengage a goal

is a working memory disorder and that's
what they cannot do

and this begins to open the door on the
possibility

that the other four executive functions
are impaired as well

more on that later so let's understand
that there are three interacting

attentional problems but that they are
best thought of as executive deficits

not attention deficits and they are the
problem with persistence toward the

future

resistance have distractions along the
way

and working memory and now you
understand the nature of this

attention problem from the one that's
produced by anxiety and depression and

autism and all the other disorders
including the learning disabilities

which have nothing to do with these I
would want families to understand that

there is more to ADHD

then just the in addition Andy's
attention

and working memory problems that at its
heart in its sole

it is a disorder of self-regulation not
one of attention

I think the biggest problem we have had
as a group in convincing the general

public about the seriousness of our
children's disorder

verses autism or schizophrenia or the
other disorders

is the very name itself is trivial ADHD

go to Starbucks good god have some
caffeine we got more serious fish to fry

year in psychiatry

than the fact that you just can't pay
attention right part of the reason that

our

disorder that the name of this disorder
is so often pilloried in the media

is because I think we miss named it this
is a developmental disorder

a self regulation not attention and
thatch

is a serious disorder a serious

as manic depression and in its own way
as autism

but it doesn't convey that to people

if they understand it only as eighty d

HD as opposed to

Sr DD a shelf regulatory

developmental disorder so I would want
families to understand the seriousness

of this

that this isn't simply inattention

there are some profoundly unique human
traits

that are not emerging as they should in
this individual

and if you understand that your
understand the bigger picture

the why of everything if it's just an
attention problem why am I seeing

impairment in virtually every domain

in which this childish ass to function
that would not come from just

inattentiveness but it would come from
an executive function disorder

a self-regulatory disorder so I would
want parents to understand that this

is the essence of this disorder
self-regulation

what is that it is first evolved the
ability to consciously

willfully choose to inhibit

your behavior and then to engage

in a series of self-directed actions
that is after all what self control is

you start to do things to yourself

these are responses that are not
directed at the world around you

they're directed at you right you're
trying

to change your behavior in some
fundamental way the second part of self

control that your child struggles

is not just the Stockton but the
thinking

the thinking is the self-directed
activity

the stuff I'm doing to myself

why would I do these things to myself to
change my behavior

from what it would otherwise be and why
would I do that

to change my future self-regulation

is not just for short term
self-improvement

it's for long-term self-improvement its
to see to your own welfare

over the long term should you act this
way

given the street sustained or delayed
consequences that lie ahead for you

that is what you must stop and think
about and that is what they don't stop

and think about

the delayed consequences

so your child is not just inattentive

they cannot stop engage in a series

of self-directed actions that they will
now use to modify

and moderate their behavior so as to
bring it in line with their long-term

welfare the future and that's what yours

your child is struggling so mightily
with

in their development it's what the other
kids are acquiring

and your child is so far behind him

