I would want parents to understand
something that the vast majority

of the lay population does not understand
self control

is not learned it is not the result of
your

upbringing and how good your parents
were this is one of the most profound

insights from our research on ADHD

ADHD is we will see is largely a narrow
genetic disorder

but then let's pursue the implication if
that is true and ADHD is a self

regulation disorder

than self control is largely narrow
genetic in origin

that has a philosophically perfect one
conclusion

the vast majority a variation in the
people sitting in this room in their

ability to manage their behavior

is not from how they were raised it is a
part of who they are

it is a part love their new road genetic
gifts

and that is very

stunning indeed that our capacity for
regulating ourselves

is a neurobiological trait not some
socially learned phenomena

that you just happen to pick up from
your parents

so I would want them to know that ADHD

being a self regulation to solder is a
rising

out of neuro genetic causes and that
this

inability to direct behavior toward
yourself comes from impairment in the

following 5

executive abilities and these have to do
with brain development

not with training it does not mean the
training

cannot enhanced on it means that they
don't originate

at the beginning in training

in the social environment the social
environment

requires that they be there already and
then

it will help to shape them to become
more proficient think if your language

ability

you didn't learn language but it doesn't
mean that you can't become more

proficient

in how you speak and how you write but
speaking and writing are not accounted

for on the basis merely

love training by your parents you're
going to develop a language no matter

where you grow up

editing neurobiological tree and it
unfolds as the brain unfolds

it is an instant and so is self control

but so control can be reduced to these
five things

what are the five things you do to
yourself these are the things your child

struggles to do

number one can you stop can you

wat because as revelation said

in the novel Gargantua worked most if
you have never read I'm sure

but it is where this phrase comes from
everything comes to those who can wait

the waiting is the tough part

you must build in a pause between the
event

and what you plan to do about it

and an ADHD there is no POS the event
happens

and your responses up out done is if
there was no front part to the brain

it is as if you were like any other
species with the spinal cord

event respond to vent response or

as an A gary larson cartoon member the
far side to amoebas a husband and wife

talking to each other one amoeba

the wife of course says to her husband
stimulus-response stimulus-response

don't you ever think

characterizes ADHD

right there don't you ever think once
you stop

you will engage in four subsequent
actions the first

is mental imagery you will recall the
past

and you will play a DVD of it in your
head you other theater

in your mind it a short usual imagery
system

the mind's eye so your child not only
cannot stop

they cannot visualize as well as other
children and what they do not visualize

before they act

is the past the relevant

trashed do you have experiences in this
situation previously if so what would

they have told you to do

lay people call this hindsight and the
word site

is no coincidence you are usually

imagining your history what does it have
to say

and you like hunt how this will lead to
foresight

you look back to anticipate what is ADHD
lied to me

no foresight you are not thinking ahead

because you weren't looking back either
plain sight in foresight

are the opposite sides are the same coin

visual imagery so you will not use

your images have your past to tell you
what to do

you will just do and then by five years
of age

you will get the third executive deficit
you can talk to yourself

young children by five years of age are
beginning to internalize their speech

and use it on themselves just watch any
first- and second-grade classroom and

you will see this

if you have a three to five year old
you'll hear it they're talking to

themselves

out loud most the day whether anyone is
in the room or not

mission to bed time and you will hear
what I mean but over the next ten years

this

external Voice gets directed to
themselves and slowly

made private and mental in its form

and so originates the voice in your head

and that voice in your head is there for
one very important reason

it's to help control yourself you start
telling yourself what to do

and it starts to work and now any family
I would explain this to you would

understand that not only can your child
not stop

and only do they not have the mind's eye
they don't have the mines Voice

and what is dare is very week it's not
controlling them

so now you know why they can't do what
you tell them to do I can't follow

instructions they can follow the rules
they can internalize the rules the

situation

because everything I have just said
requires a voice

in your head and they don't have that

the next comes from the first three and
that is the mines heart

the ability to manage your emotions

so that they are more socially
acceptable

so that they are consistent with your
goals

not conflicting with your welfare

and so we will see the ADHD child as
we've already described him

easily frustrated quick to anger
impatient

and just overall more excitable and more
emotional

than others but what gets lost in this
explanation is something more

fundamental

our emotions are our motivations

if you cannot manage your emotions you
cannot manage your motivation either

because the fourth executive ability is
the source of self-motivation

self motivation is the fuel tank for all

future directed behavior there is no
getting ready for tomorrow

if there is no self motivation

so what is the ADHD child lost here they
cannot

motivate themselves what does that mean

it means that you will always be
dependent on the environment around you

and it immediate consequences for how
hard and how long

you can work and if there are no
consequences

in that context you cannot work

you cannot persist you will not get it
done

the fourth executive ability now
explains to these parents

why this child can play video games for
hours

and can not do homework for more than a
few minutes

because the video game provides external
continuous

a hundred percent consequences for
interacting with that

and the homework does nothing

when a problem is solved on a sheet of
paper nothing

happens consequences

are delayed and therein lies the trouble

so the corollary of this is if you wanna
see an ADHD person fail

you put him in an environment where
there are no consequences and I

guarantee you feel your

the work will not get done because the
person cannot self-motivated

and this is not a choice and this is not
willful and this is not

a child who just could if they wished
wake up tomorrow and smell the coffee

and get busy and do the work

they cannot this is an internal neuro
genetic

executive failure you can't
self-motivated like other people

so it doesn't matter what your goals are
you won't get there

because self-motivation is required for
all goal-directed actions

the final executive ability which will
not emerge until a childhood

in the person with ADHD is the mines
playground

this is the ability to plan and problems
of how many different possible

options can you generate right now to
get around this problem

this ability to simulate multiple
possible

future options is the highest

executive function in humans it is the
source of all cultural

innovation but it originates

in problem-solving how quickly in your
mind

can you think have multiple ways to
overcome the problem you just

encountered

and people with ADHD will struggle with
this one as much as with the others

so if you want to understand ADHD as a
parent you have got to understand these

are the five things that are deadly

in dis child the ability to stop

to use visual imagery to use your mines
Voice

to use our minds heart in emotion and
motivation

and when called upon to do so to
simulate multiple possibilities

when faced with the problem or when
planning out

what you hope to do planning and problem
solving

those are the five executive abilities
we know where they are in the frontal

lobe we know that ADHD children have
lost all five of them

actually that a bit of an overstatement
it's not that they don't have them

it's that they are quite delayed and we
will discuss the delay

in a moment so ADHD lead you to

act on impulse not resist distraction
you are less able to think back

about what you are doing about the
action that lies ahead you cannot use

your hindsight

and therefore your foresight is gone you
do not plan ahead

you live in the moment this is going to
rob you of your sense of time

because the center time comes from
looking back to look ahead

looking across time and knowing where
I'm going

you will not have a subjective sent to
time and that alone is going to be a

devastating

adult disability you have the consummate
disorder

of time management it's no wonder
they're always late

you will not be able to talk to yourself
to reason with yourself to ask yourself

questions and to remind yourself of the
rules that are governing the immediate

situation

and therefore doesn't matter what people
say to you over and over and over again

you long do which no amount of nattering
by your teacher or your mother

overcome the internal mind Voice

deficit you will not be able to use
language as well as other people to

regulate yourself

and that is going to the also lead you
to have a self motivation

problem and a problem with regulating
your emotions

and was self soothing when you do become
emotional

and then as we've said you will have
trouble with planning and

problem-solving

so if you wanna know the symptoms listed
ADHD this is it

the DSM is but a mere superficial
reflection

are the most obvious symptoms up these
five

executive deficits but to truly
understand ADHD you need to know

that these five are all there underneath

to refer to ADHD is inattention is to
refer to autism

as hand flapping and speaking funny

they are the most obvious symptoms up a
failure to develop the ability to relate

to others

a special objects as humans

and out is what autism really is under
needs

the rest a bit is just the most
superficial set of symptoms

so I would want my family to understand

the profundity up these deficits

because inattention hardly captures

what is going wrong in development

