now the DSM says

there are three kinds have ADHD let's
shift gears here and get honest

there is not a combined, 
inattentive, or hyperactive type

and dsm-5 will abandon them

they are contaminated with each other
because there really is only a single

ADHD in human population and it varies
in its severity and all these types have

done

is to capture the degree of severity of a
single disorder

so we are now grappling for ways

above sub grouping people with ADHD that
use more clinically useful

then the DSM view is because the DSM to
you

is useless and one of those ways it is
very compelling

is ADHD with and without conduct
disorder

the europeans have done this for decades
in the

North American continent we viewed
conduct disorder as a co morbidity

we are now looking at it as a sub
grouping criteria

because you see ADHD children who have
conduct disorder

differ from ADHD children without it in
many

many respects so many in fact that we
are now coming to think of this subset

of children who have both disorders

as a unique form have ADHD because both
disorders are more severe

both disorder start earlier both
disorders are far more persistent

and the combination of these disorders
will predict ongoing difficulties with

anti-social behaviour into adulthood

and just as important these individuals

carry a high risk for psychopathy one in
five

these children is a budding psychopath a
child who lacks

guilt conscience empathy and remorse

a child who was a predator ADHD does not
contribute to suck up a thing

but ADHD with conduct disorder is the
single best predictor

up the psychopath that we know of so

in the future we may be making the same
distinction the europeans have

that would conduct disorder ADHD go
together we have an extraordinarily

general and disorder station %uh
familiar with conduct disorder it is the

early appearance of lying stealing
fighting and preying on other children

in an instrument away

it is violating the rights of other
people for your own gain

and it manifests early as the lying

the stealing and the fighting but other
symptoms will develop thereafter

the hyperactive typeof ADHD never
existed because ninety percent of all

cases go on to get the combined type
within

three years and even if they don't get
the combined type there just one symptom

short

and so we call them subthreshold
combined types but they're not a

different type

job we take these two groups have
children who really are just variations

on the good old combined type with ADHD

at 95 percent of all the kids put into
this group there is a small group left

over

who are purely oppositional but because
they have here oppositional disorder and

they never had ADHD they were outgrow
their OD'd usually within 2

24 years and they are ADHD will go away

why are they there because parents
confuse OD'd with ADHD

and if their child is only oppositional
the often report that they have symptoms

of ADHD when they don't

but OD'd alone is a relatively benign
disorder

unless he goes with ADHD and that it is
a highly

persistent disorder now the real action
during the past decade has been with

this

in a tent a group of children most of
whom are combined type children

and they grew up and they'll awesome
hyperactivity along the way as we said

and as a result is gonna come a time in
adolescent and especially by adulthood

weather does not I've are active enough
to

stay in the combined type anymore and so
clinicians relabel them as inattentive

type but they shouldn't

want to combine type: always combine
type: but you can see how

at least half for the individuals get
put into the inattentive group they just

outgrowing their hyperactivity

and then there's that group of children
who just are one or two symptom short

are being in the combined I but they
have to combine type anyway

they're just a milder version have it

