Now viewing ADHD as this neural-genetic or neural-biologic disorder of self-

regulation brings with it some very
important insights I would want you

and families who I counsel to understand

not the least of which is this one this

is ADHD writ large it always know

ADHD is

to summarize it in a single phrase time
blindness

people with ADHD can I do what I'm

and that includes looking back to look
ahead to get ready

from its coming at you so the individual
with ADHD is kinda living in the now

and wherever the now goes they are being
polled along

by the gnomes wherever it goes I give an
example from our adult clinic

so rather funny but it wasn't to his
wife this couple came into our office in

Massachusetts once and she said let me
tell you what it's like living with this

guy

because it's like having a fourth child
actually this is what happened last

weekend

she says if you can't do something about
this I'm leaving him

here's what happened he went out to mow
the yard

he will do a lot more out to the garage
in the tank was empty so we reach for

the fuel can

it was empty to so he threw it in the
back at the Ford Explorer and headed

down to the little quicky Mart

and while I was filling up the gas can
his body polls and in his ford explorer

in says

you know it's opening day on the trot
stream what you say we go fish a little

bit

and so the guy hops in his buddies
explore and a coal fly fishing

and they are out for six hours and then
they get thirsty

and decide to stop off at a pub for
beers and other at the little local

tavern

is a true story by the way because
within an hour the state police had

found his car still running an open gas
can ask the question

any finally wandered home at four
o'clock in the afternoon

to see what happens doesn't matter what
your plans were

what your goals for the now is more
compelling

than the information you're holding in
mind and you will get pulled along

by the now you are time lined

because if we had to summarize

in a single sentence what is the purpose
up the frontal lobe

to humans is to organize your behavior

across time in anticipation of what is
coming at you

the future so ADHD creates a blindness
to time

or technically to be more accurate
nearsightedness to the future

I can only be eloquent want

national a this is extemporaneous I'm
not there

okay ADHD brain is

at a tard a blindness two-time or
technically

to be exact it is a nearsightedness to
the future

just as people who are nearsighted can
only read things close at hand

people with ADHD can only deal with
things near in time

the further out the event

lines the less they are capable at
dealing with it and this is why

everything is left at the last minute

because they only deal with less minutes

that's all they perceive that all the
deal with it all they organize to

and so their life is a series of one
crisis after another all of which were

avoidable because people

prepared and they didn't they weren't
ready

on time in time overtime with what they
needed at that time

note the word time so ADHD is destroying
the timing and timeliness of human

behavior

that is a very important thing for
parents to understand

because well a three year old does not
have to have a sense of time

a 30-year-old us and one in the most
devastating deficit

in adult life that ADHD producers is a
disruption

in the fabric of time but can't cope
with it

as well as others now this ability to
organize across time

comes with the capacity to build
pyramids have behavior

from little behaviors to the bigger
behaviors above them

to the bigger goals about them all human
behavior can be organized into a

hierarchy

think about planning a wedding can you
imagine hierarchy you would have to

create

the decision trees and when they would
have to be done and when you would have

to book to church and get the minister

and get the flowers and booked the
reception hall and all those come with

little subroutines like picking up a
telephone in calling your minister

right it's the final old that allows you
to organize

all over those toward the first single
overarching

purpose the wedding

and that's with ADHD destroys people
with ADHD cannot hierarchically

organize behavior and so they are
accustomed to dealing with behaviors

in little fits and starts but they can't
lose those together

as well as others to create the bigger
goal

to the bigger goal all the way up and
that's why you see

a short attention span it's not really a
short attention span the inability to

organize behavior

across time into a hierarchy

the ability to look ahead is called
intention

so ADHD is actually ID'd its intention

deficit disorder because it doesn't
matter what your intentions are

you're not going to do them with

sold all you can head out the door

for school in the morning and promise
your mother that you will not be put in

timeout again you really you will get it
right

today you'll be hate yourself you will
not fight with the other kid you will

finish work and you mean it shouldn't

clearly but within an hour your mothers
getting the usual call that you're in

time out to nature disruptive

and a need to come and get you I'm
notice what happened to your intentions

are not the problem

and it's not insincerity see inability
to organize around those intentions

so ATT is really i DD now I want to
understand something

your brain can be split into two pieces
the back part

is where you acquire knowledge the front
part is where you use it

the back part his knowledge the front
part his performance

ADHD like a meat cleaver just split your
brain

in half so it doesn't matter what you
know you won't use it

you have what we call in psychology a
performance disorder

performance disorders have nothing to do
with skill you have all the skills

other people your age possess but you
can't use them

because you see if the executive system
where the rubber meets the road

where what you know get applied in every
day what you do

and ADHD is a disorder up doing what you
know

it is not a disorder up knowing what to
do

and that is a very important thing I
want families to understand as well

your child unless they were raised in a
zoo or in a very impoverished area

or were adopted out of some far-fetched
war-torn

undeveloped country has all the
information and knowledge that the other

kids their age have

what they can't do issues at

it is the application up what you know
that this disorder

robs you of same get smartest person on
the planet and you're still gonna do

some pretty stupid things

because it's not what you know it's
doing

so I'll

