I want parents to understand there are
misconceptions

afoot about the stimulants they
are not addictive as prescribed unless

you inject or inhale them

they do not produce aggression and they
didn't cause Columbine

they are in fact able to reduce
aggressive and antisocial behavior

they do not cause seizures you have to
swallow the whole bottle

so even children with seizure disorders
can take these drugs safely

they do not cost tics or Tourettes unless
you are already are prone

to tics or Tourettes and then they may
bring them out and make them worse even

then

only in about 30 percent of the cases
the remaining cases do not

experience a worsening of them of their tics
and so children with ADHD and tics can take

these drugs safely

as long as they're not wanted to 30
percent that makes it worse and by the

way the worsening as temporary

stop the drug the Texaco back to their
baseline within a week

are we overdosing ADHD children in North
America

absolutely not if you look at the
prevalent to the disorder it's seven and

a half percent

if you look at how many children are
taking medication it's between four and

five percent

which means you're missing a third of
all children

and by the way ninety percent of all
adults with ADHD

are not treated so are we using more
medication than ever before

yes is it scandalous no what's your
problem

we still have people who don't have
access to care and you aren't being

treated for their disorder

and that's the real problem as our
surgeon general pointed out

not overtreatment in the United States
or appear

is there a risk it later substance abuse
from the stimulants

your own CBC ran a program on
marketplace the marketplace

know what is called rate them over that
little blonde hottie that used to date

your member parliament

I just wanna make sure I got the right
program at

everybody knows what I say that all her
yet we know

okay I have a bone to pick with that
because they were in fact

deceitful and their creation their
program especially with our

medical school but nevertheless there in
a program

claiming that stimulants can predispose
children to cocaine abuse

nicotine and other drugs of abuse later
in life if your children took them

this is based upon a single study done
by Nadine Lambert in San Francisco

nadine study has many many flaws in it
not the least of which she never control

for conduct disorder which is the
biggest predictor of drug abuse among

ADHD children and when you control for
that there is no link

between being treated with the stimulant
and abusing

any drug how do I know that because 17
you can correct this line

17 studies including my own have now
shown

no relationship between length of time
you take a stimulant throughout

childhood

and risk it any abuse in adulthood so
there's a box score

17 21 what did the CBC focus on the one

why because we all know now that
televised

journalism is a former entertainment not

a former information that they go after
the scandal

the underbelly the sensational side

and they ignore anything that does not
fit that preconceived idea and not

exactly what the CBC did

which was I think a travesty of
journalism to the improve academic

achievement

no not at the start but we now have
several studies including one published

a week ago

that show that if you stay in your
medication at least two years or more

we do start to see an uptick in academic
achievement skills but prior to that

time what the drugs are doing is
improving your productivity

the amount of work you do but there's no
knowledge in a pill

so why would you know your
multiplication tables when you take your

concert or when you didn't know them the
day before

right but what the drugs do is to make
you available for learning

and if you stay available for learning
over a long enough period of time you do

learn more

but not in the short run and then I
mentioned to tear a I'm not gonna go

over that

because I've already mentioned it but it
is the non stimulant on the market right

now and as I said we will have another
one

later on two very good run especially
for kids who have anxiety

or checks or OCD or insomnia

or other sleep problems

